docs: add security policy (#2237)
canonical/charmcraft: SECURITY.md

# Security policy

## Charmcraft and charms

Charmcraft is a tool to create and publish charms. A charm is a software artifact that

> contains instructions to manage a separate application in the context of a [Juju] model,

Author: possibly we should also mention things like resources but I'm not sure I know enough to write something decent

Reviewer: Not sure we should bother - the only thing Charmcraft really does with resources is upload them and do basic store operations.

> Charmcraft is a tool to create and publish charms. A charm is a software artifact that
> contains instructions to manage a separate application in the context of a [Juju] model,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Charmcraft is a tool to create and publish charms. A component of the [Juju]
ecosystem, a charm is a piece of software that orchestrates and manages software
services,
```

Trying to simplify/clarify this part. @lengau Thoughts on this wording?

Reviewer: I'm fine either way.

maintainer.

## Build isolation

In typical operation, Charmcraft makes use of tools like [LXD] and [Multipass] to create
isolated build environments. Charmcraft itself provides no extra security, relying on
these tools to provide secure sandboxing. The security of these build environments
are the responsibility of these tools and should be reported to their respective
project maintainers.

Additionally, [destructive] builds are designed to give full access to the running host
and are not isolated in any way.

## Release cycle

Canonical tracks and responds to vulnerabilities in the latest patch of every
[current major release] of Charmcraft. For a list of supported bases, see the
[base] documentation.

### Supported bases

Bases are tied to Ubuntu LTS releases. For example, the `ubuntu@24.04` base uses Ubuntu
24.04 LTS as its build and runtime environment. This means that Charmcraft's support
of bases aligns with the [Ubuntu LTS release cycle].

The most recent major release of Charmcraft will always support bases still in their
regular maintenance lifecycle. When a major release of Charmcraft drops support for a

> base, the previous major release remains supported until the dropped base reaches the

Reviewer: I'm not sure how to specify that we're only supporting it for those bases that aren't in the newer version.

E.g. Charmcraft 4.0 is going to drop centos 7, but that means that Charmcraft 3 will be supported *only* for centos 7 (but not for Ubuntu 20.04).

Reviewer 2: > those bases that aren't in the newer version

That's the intended meaning behind "a major release of Charmcraft drops support for a base...".

It took some time to workshop this paragraph due to the difficulty in expressing this idea. I'd be happy to consider any improvements.
